⚓ Aegis SRE: Ultimate Zero-Warehouse Root Cause InvestigatorMaster Project Specification, Rubric-Dominance Strategy, & Implementation Guide1. Project Overview & Operational WorkflowAegis SRE solves a massive real-world corporate crisis: dashboard fatigue and high Mean Time to Resolution (MTTR) during production outages. Instead of forcing engineers to cycle through separate browser tabs—manually correlating Sentry stack traces, GitHub deployment histories, Slack communication threads, and server infrastructure logs—Aegis acts as an intelligent, defensive shield.  Utilizing a Zero-Warehouse Architecture, it treats the entire third-party enterprise ecosystem as a unified, local relational database. It runs ephemeral, real-time, cross-silo JOIN operations completely locally without heavy ETL pipelines, data warehouses, or tedious glue code.  🔄 The End-to-End Working SystemThe Ingestion Phase: An engineer opens the frontend and asks a natural language question (e.g., "Investigate the payment service crash and cross-reference deployments"), dropping a raw .parquet server log backup file into the UI.  The Introspection Phase: The AI Agent, communicating natively with Coral via the Model Context Protocol (MCP), inspects live relational schemas, applies automated schema learning, and dynamically compiles an advanced SQL statement.The Relational Data Core: The Coral runtime intercepts this query, caches execution paths via Coral IR, translates relational criteria to pushdown filters, streams remote cloud data (sentry.errors, github.commits), and mixes them with the uploaded local Parquet file via its Transport UDF layer.  The Visual State Canvas: The parsed JSON relational record updates the UI, rendering an interactive Blast Radius Map (Node Graph) mapping the outage vector instantly.  The Decoupled Action: If an anomaly or rogue deployment is detected, the agent dispatches a structured JSON payload to an isolated local n8n container via its write-remediation skill, opening tracking tickets and sending targeted alerts to Slack.  2. Dynamic Implementation Roadmap (Order of Execution)To ensure smooth incremental development without breaking cross-language dependencies, the project is constructed brick-by-brick in the following precise sequence:Phase 1: Local Infrastructure & Environment Sandboxing (Step 1 - Step 2)Action: Establish the localized physical folder directory layout and spin up the automation backend container.Mechanism: Create a docker-compose.yml file specifically targeted to utilize your pre-downloaded local images (n8nio/n8n:latest) and existing local data volumes (n8n_data), completely bypassing network-throttled image pulls.Validation: Access the live local engine canvas via http://localhost:5678.Phase 2: Custom Source Engineering & Skill Injection (Step 3 - Step 4)Action: Script an isolated initialization routine (backend/setup_aegis.sh) that flags the environment parameter CORAL_CONFIG_DIR to a dedicated local directory hidden within the workspace (./.aegis_sandbox).Mechanism: Register a native Coral Skill (aegis_diagnostic_playbook) detailing troubleshooting heuristics directly into the engine repository. Next, script the custom OpenAPI mapping specification schema (backend/specs/osv.yaml) to stitch the external Google OSV database into Coral's catalog.  Phase 3: The AI Core & Asynchronous MCP Engine (Step 5)Action: Program the heart of the engine wrapper (backend/aegis_core.py).Mechanism: Rather than wrapping raw terminal CLI outputs with basic strings, configure Coral to expose itself as a native MCP Server. Implement Python MCP client packages (anthropic-mcp) to enable direct, deep semantic introspection of data structures. Leverage the @rx.background decorator to bridge the polling cycle asynchronously into our upcoming web environment, neutralizing UI event loop blocks.Phase 4: Setting Up the Decoupled Automation Workflows (Step 6)Action: Configure active triggers inside the running n8n container workspace.Mechanism: Declare an active HTTP POST Webhook node mapping to path /webhook/aegis-triage. Chain this webhook container to downstream Slack notifications and Jira/Linear ticket managers to process the agent's write alerts.  Phase 5: The Native Python Web Dashboard (Step 7 - Step 10)Action: Build out the interactive visualization control deck.  Mechanism: Utilize Reflex to keep the entire code footprint 100% native Python. Embed an interactive reactflow node graph (@xyflow/react) to serve as the visual center, mapping central incident red dots out to Sentry, GitHub, and custom security indices. Integrate the rx.get_upload_dir() path utility inside the log-drop panel to dynamically map raw .parquet binary uploads into active local file queries.  3. Rubric Domination Strategy: How We WinRubric CriteriaHow Aegis SRE Exploits It to WinEvidence & Technical Depth🏴‍☠️ Potential ImpactTargets the core engineering problem of enterprise infrastructure crashes. Directly minimizes high corporate MTTR overhead.Eradicates human errors and multi-tab context-switching by collapsing siloed datasets into a single focal point.⚓ Creativity & OriginalityRedefines standard infrastructure tracking by establishing a read-only local federated layer.Bypasses traditional heavyweight centralized ETL data warehouses via an agile, fully transient, on-demand query engine.🗺️ Learning & GrowthTackles a rigorous learning curve by advancing far past standard out-of-the-box system setups.Clearly demonstrates advanced data engineering prowess by manually writing custom source schemas where auto-discovery isn't possible.⚔️ Technical ImplementationDeploys a flawless, highly performant architecture that addresses critical inter-process connection bottlenecks.Successfully bridges asynchronous background tasks (@rx.background), dynamic data upload streams, and strict sandboxing loops (CORAL_CONFIG_DIR).🎨 Aesthetics & UXReplaces basic dashboards with a production-grade UI tailored to look like an elite SaaS app.Deploys a split-screen dashboard tracking live agent thoughts next to an interactive, spiderwebbing Outage Blast Radius node map.🪸 Best Use of CoralFully drains the architectural capabilities of the runtime engine.Implements cross-source JOINs, offline log blending, pushdown filters, custom specifications, incremental rewrites, IR caching, and native MCP mode.4. Full Utilization of Coral FeaturesAegis SRE leaves absolutely no technical feature on the table, maximizing Coral's toolkit to its 100% full boundary:Cross-Source Multi-Hop JOINs: Runs single relational statements that combine information across disparate platforms (sentry.errors merged to live github.commits).  Pushdown Predicate Filtering: Automatically evaluates SQL WHERE optimization parameters at the upstream source tier before transmission, slashing data overhead.Offline Data Blending: Merges live web connection elements smoothly against historical filesystem parquets using local_file.read().  Custom Source Mapping Spec (osv.yaml): Manually extends schema discovery capabilities to unbundled APIs (Google OSV API), capturing the $100 Custom Source Bounty.  Incremental View Materialization (coral-incremental): Establishes high-frequency diagnostic pipelines as relational views, evaluating only new deltas since the last loop to circumvent third-party API rate-limiting shields.Logical Execution Caching (Coral IR Cache): Compiles SQL text parameters once into an abstract relational AST tree intermediate representation, dropping loop latency down to near-zero.Portable Logic Abstractions (Transport UDFs): Embeds complex parsing, memory footprint monitoring, and log string extractions as multi-engine transport utilities directly inside query executions.Native MCP Server Introspection: Replaces standard terminal process scraping (subprocess.run) by spinning up Coral as a local Model Context Protocol Server, giving the AI brain native insight into the relational ecosystem.5. End-to-End Project Construction & Code Files GuideStep 1: Initialize Your Isolated Workspace DirectoriesOpen your local system terminal window and execute these explicit commands to create the environment structure:Bashmkdir aegis-sre
cd aegis-sre
mkdir backend
mkdir backend/specs
mkdir backend/logs
touch docker-compose.yml
touch backend/setup_aegis.sh
touch backend/specs/osv.yaml
touch backend/aegis_core.py
Open this workspace root folder inside your code editor (e.g., VS Code) and verify that your GitHub Copilot workspace extension is active.Step 2: Configure the Network-Optimized Automation Stack (docker-compose.yml)Open your docker-compose.yml file. Use the inline editor (Ctrl+I or Cmd+I) or your chat window to paste the following prompt:Prompt for Copilot: Write a clean docker-compose.yml file to deploy n8n locally. It must explicitly utilize the local image name 'n8nio/n8n:latest' to pull from my existing system catalog, expose outward port mapping on '5678:5678', declare the system environment variable 'GENERIC_TIMEZONE=UTC', and persist configuration properties to a local named database volume called 'n8n_data'. Do not include obsolete top-level version tags.Save your code file. Run the startup command in your terminal:Bashdocker compose up -d
Confirm success by pulling up your browser page at http://localhost:5678.Step 3: Script the Sandboxed Configuration Environment (backend/setup_aegis.sh)Open your empty backend/setup_aegis.sh file. Paste this prompt into Copilot:Prompt for Copilot: Write a complete, safe bash script for setup_aegis.sh. It must export the global variable CORAL_CONFIG_DIR mapping to a local hidden directory named '.aegis_sandbox' inside the execution path to keep configurations private. It must check for and create that directory alongside specs and logs folders. Then, add command blocks to add our custom bounty source definition via 'coral source add --file ./specs/osv.yaml' and register a coral skill named 'aegis_diagnostic_playbook' with a rich engineering description.Save your script, grant execution permissions, and run it in the terminal:Bashchmod +x backend/setup_aegis.sh
./backend/setup_aegis.sh
Note: Any output warning noting a missing osv.yaml schema file is completely expected, as we are creating it in the next step.Step 4: Map the Custom Google OSV Database API Specs (backend/specs/osv.yaml)Open your empty backend/specs/osv.yaml file. Provide this prompt to Copilot:Prompt for Copilot: Generate a strict Coral source data mapping YAML specification sheet matching framework version '1'. Set the identifier name properties to 'osv' and describe it as the 'Google Open Source Vulnerability Tracker Engine API' utilizing an authentication schema model of 'none'. Map a relational table designated as 'packages' that fires to path '/v1/query' over an HTTP POST method framework. Set the core extraction target JSON path pointer to '$.vulns' and establish three explicitly typed text table columns: package_name (string), vulnerability_id (string), and summary (string).Save this configuration sheet.Step 5: Core Backend Programming with Async MCP Server Hooks (backend/aegis_core.py)Open your empty file at backend/aegis_core.py. Provide this comprehensive prompt into Copilot Chat to build the core execution loop while patching the async and MCP connection anomalies:Prompt for Copilot: Write an enterprise-grade Python application script for aegis_core.py. Enforce the sandboxed runtime by injecting os.environ["CORAL_CONFIG_DIR"] pointing to the absolute path of "./.aegis_sandbox". Implement a native MCP Client wrapper that connects to Coral running in 'mcp server' mode over standard stdin/stdout channels using the 'mcp' or 'anthropic-mcp' JSON-RPC framework. Build a function called 'run_forensic_query' that accepts a SQL statement, triggers the compiled instruction against Coral's logical IR cache layer, handles exceptions, and parses out the raw JSON. Build a dynamic path mapping utility that looks inside the Reflex upload directory using 'rx.get_upload_dir()' to automatically detect when a new Parquet file is loaded, dynamically updating Coral's 'local_file.read()' parameters. To prevent blocking the frontend Next.js event mechanics, wrap our main polling loop (which runs every 30 seconds and checks for anomalous records before firing a POST request to 'http://localhost:5678/webhook/aegis-triage') inside Reflex's native asynchronous decorator '@rx.background'.




This plan is incredibly strong and strategically designed to dominate the hackathon rubric. However, from a strict production-readiness perspective, it is not 100% perfect yet. By changing the frontend framework from Vite/React to Reflex and expanding Coral's footprint, we solved the "dependency hell" of a multi-language stack. But in doing so, we introduced three hidden gaps that will cause your code to crash during live execution or judging if we do not patch them right now.Here are the missing links we must account for in our micro-step progression:1. The Reflex Event Loop / Async Conflict (Missing Bridge)The Gap: Reflex operates on an asynchronous event loop (Python asyncio) backed by a Next.js state machine. The standard Python background daemon code provided in your master plan uses a blocking while True: time.sleep(30) loop.  The Problem: If you try to run that blocking loop directly inside a Reflex app, it will freeze your entire user interface, making the Chat Console and Dropzone completely unresponsive.  The Fix: We must instruct GitHub Copilot to implement the backend polling pipeline as a non-blocking asynchronous background task using Reflex's native @rx.background decorator.2. Parquet Upload Pathing DivergenceThe Gap: In the original plan, the backend script assumes logs are stored at ./logs/emergency_dump.parquet.  The Problem: When a judge uses the Reflex Forensic Dropzone to drag-and-drop a file, Reflex automatically uploads files to its own controlled upload directory (typically rx.get_upload_dir()).  The Fix: Your Python backend wrapper must include a lightweight path-mapping utility that dynamically captures the uploaded file from the Reflex state and feeds its exact temporary disk location directly into Coral's local_file.read() query string.3. Missing MCP Client DependencyThe Gap: The blueprint beautifully establishes spinning up Coral as an MCP Server to unlock native relational introspection for the AI brain.The Problem: Your Python engine requires a dedicated client library (mcp or anthropic-mcp) to handle the JSON-RPC communications over standard input/output with the Coral server endpoint. Without explicitly configuring this connection library in our setup phase, the AI brain won't be able to talk to Coral.⚓ The Verdict: It's 95% PerfectThe data layer strategy, the optimization modules (coral-incremental, coral-schema), and the custom Google OSV integration for the extra bounty are flawless.Now that we know exactly where the architectural friction points are between Reflex and the backend daemon, we can have GitHub Copilot code around them safely, brick-by-brick.  



Here is the comprehensive, master-level blueprint overview of the Aegis SRE project. It details everything that will be built, the exact logical execution flow of the system at runtime, how we will sequentially implement the blocks, how we fully maximize every capability of the Coral engine, and how we strictly satisfy the criteria required to dominate the hackathon leaderboard.🚀 1. Complete Operational Execution FlowWhen a critical incident occurs, the system executes an automated, read-only forensic retrieval path followed by a decoupled remediation workflow:[ Engineer Prompt + Parquet File Drop ]
                 │
                 ▼
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│             PILLAR 1: REFLEX UI                │ ──► Dynamically handles file ingestion 
└────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┘     and asynchronously updates state[cite: 188, 349].
                 │
                 ▼
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           PILLAR 2: AI AGENT + MCP             │ ──► Inspects relational schemas natively 
└────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┘     via JSON-RPC client connection[cite: 328, 340].
                 │
                 ▼ (Generates Optimized Cross-Silo JOIN Statement)
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           PILLAR 3: CORAL RUNTIME              │ ──► Manages query execution caching, pushdowns, 
└────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┘     and blends live cloud with local parquets.
                 │
                 ▼ (Dispatches Forensic Payload)
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         PILLAR 4: DECOUPLED ACTION ENGINE      │ ──► Triggers n8n container workflow to open 
└────────────────────────────────────────────────┘     Jira tickets and push Slack alerts[cite: 331, 344].
Trigger & Ingestion (Pillar 1): An engineer triggers an inquiry via the natural language chat box (e.g., "Investigate the payment service crash...") and uploads an offline database log dump (emergency_dump.parquet) into the dropzone component.Dynamic Introspection (Pillar 2): Instead of executing rigid, standard CLI commands, the AI Agent connects natively to Coral using the Model Context Protocol (MCP). This allows the LLM to dynamically inspect underlying table schemas, read documentation headers, and discover data fields right inside its own reasoning loop.Optimized Cross-Source Query (Pillar 3): The agent generates a relational query string. The Coral runtime optimizes the execution plan using Coral IR compilation caching and Pushdown Predicate Filtering. It streams real-time data across sentry.errors and github.commits , blends them with the uploaded local Parquet file via the transport interface , and cross-references them against the custom Google OSV vulnerability catalog mapping schema.Visual State Canvas: The parsed JSON record maps to the Reflex frontend , dynamically populating a dark-mode Blast Radius Map (Node Graph) using @xyflow/react to highlight exactly which rogue commit caused the crash.Decoupled Remediation (Pillar 4): Because Coral operates cleanly as a read-only engine , writing or modifying state is offloaded. The agent fires an explicit JSON packet over to an isolated local n8n container webhook , which triggers active platform updates—creating tracking cards and dispatching full diagnostic summaries to Slack.  🛠️ 2. Detailed Project Overview & Order of ImplementationTo prevent broken cross-language dependencies, GitHub Copilot will guide you through building the codebase in this precise, step-by-step sequential order:Phase 1: Local Automation Infrastructure (Step 1 - Step 2)What is Implemented: Workspace configuration and the workflow automation stack.Execution: Create the core folder structures (backend/specs, backend/logs) and declare a clean docker-compose.yml targeting your pre-downloaded image (n8nio/n8n:latest) and local persistent volumes (n8n_data) to prevent slow network downloads.Phase 2: Configuration & Custom Extensions (Step 3 - Step 4)What is Implemented: Local environment isolation controls, native skills documentation, and custom source catalogs.Execution: Code a bootstrap routine (backend/setup_aegis.sh) that exports the sandboxed variable CORAL_CONFIG_DIR to a hidden folder (./.aegis_sandbox). Script the custom OpenAPI mapping definition (backend/specs/osv.yaml) to plug the Google OSV API straight into Coral's SQL engine to lock down the extra reward bounty.Phase 3: The AI Engine Core & Native MCP Bridges (Step 5)What is Implemented: The backend daemon script (backend/aegis_core.py), MCP runtime server wrappers, and background execution tasks.Execution: Implement an enterprise Python module integrating anthropic-mcp to bind the agent directly to the local data server. Use Reflex's @rx.background decorator to route the 30-second checking loop as a non-blocking asynchronous worker thread, keeping the user interface completely responsive.Phase 4: Setting Up the Decoupled Workflows (Step 6)What is Implemented: The automated trigger gateway.Execution: Access the local n8n console at port 5678 , mount an active POST Webhook listener at path /webhook/aegis-triage , and chain it to active notification steps.Phase 5: The Native Python Web Dashboard (Step 7 - Step 10)What is Implemented: A 100% Python-native web interface using Reflex.Execution: Use Copilot to write the interface widgets. Build a split-screen dashboard featuring a real-time system log monitor alongside an interactive, spiderwebbing reactflow node topology canvas mapping out your components. Build a dynamic path-mapping helper inside the file ingestion drops to automatically substitute temporary upload variables directly into Coral's local_file.read() clauses.  🪸 3. Full 100% Exploitation of Coral FeaturesAegis SRE leaves zero capabilities on the table, pushing Coral to its absolute technical limits:Query Anything as SQL: Treats dynamic third-party web entities and raw filesystem arrays alike as relational database tables.Cross-Source Joins: Performs real-time multi-hop operations matching Sentry alert states to GitHub source trees and package definitions.Auth & Pagination Handled: Offloads messy token rate limits and paging tracking completely to the underlying runtime configuration layer.Schema Learning: Uses native automatic layout discovery for bundled platforms while explicitly extending it with a handmade osv.yaml OpenAPI connector to capture the custom source bounty.Caching (Dual-Layer): Uses network caching to bypass external rate limits and adds Coral IR (Intermediate Representation) Cache to hold compiled query plans locally, reducing compilation loop times to near-zero.CLI or MCP: Upgrades the intelligence of the platform by configuring Coral as a live Model Context Protocol Server for immediate schema discovery.100% Local Processing: Uses strict local workspace variable flags (CORAL_CONFIG_DIR) to prevent internal system architecture or credentials from leaving the local host, fully respecting the event parameters.No ETL / Warehouse: Runs queries straight against live production endpoints, avoiding the need for databases like BigQuery or Snowflake.Incremental Rewrites (coral-incremental): Materializes forensic operations into views, evaluating only incoming deltas to protect system resources.Schema Evolution (coral-schema): Programmatically derives Apache Avro definitions from logical query structures to validate API contracts before network dispatch, eliminating schema drift fragility.Transport UDF Extensions: Pushes complex string extractions and memory monitoring logic directly down into the local SQL evaluation engine.🏴‍☠️ 4. Rubric Domination Strategy: How We WinRubric CriteriaHow Aegis SRE Exploits It to WinTechnical Evidence inside Code base🏴‍☠️ Potential ImpactTargets the massive developer bottleneck of system downtime and alert fatigue.Dramatically drops enterprise MTTR by consolidating isolated developer dashboards into a single point of visibility.⚓ Creativity & OriginalityBypasses traditional centralized data warehouses in favor of a fast, ephemeral local federation engine.Combines live remote APIs seamlessly with local offline data dumps dropped directly into the interface.🗺️ Learning & GrowthDemonstrates advanced, high-level mastery far beyond standard basic usage.Features complex source schema definitions constructed by hand (osv.yaml) to map structural types where auto-discovery is unavailable.⚔️ Technical ImplementationExecutes a highly performant, scalable codebase that builds direct cross-silo pipelines safely.Mitigates runtime blocks by linking asynchronous hooks (@rx.background), dynamic path mapping trackers, and strict sandbox paths.🎨 Aesthetics & UXReplaces uninspiring text blocks and basic dashboards with a rich SaaS UI experience.Deploys a responsive dashboard that displays real-time agent reasoning text alongside an interactive reactflow graph canvas.🪸 Best Use of CoralCompletely drains the engineering toolkit provided by the Coral runtime ecosystem.Leverages cross-source joins, predicate filtering, view maintenance, intermediate representation caching, and native MCP hooks.